THE SCHOOLDAYS OF JESUS By J.M. Coetzee 260 pp. Viking. $27.In the Myth of Er, told or retold by Socrates at the end of Plato's "Republic," we learn that after death souls are reincarnated only after crossing Lethe, the River of Oblivion. In his 2013 novel "The Childhood of Jesus" and now in its sequel, "The Schooldays of Jesus," J.M. Coetzee has written a pair of stylistically realistic novels with, however, a Lethe premise more at home in myth. Everyone in the Spanish-speaking country where these novels are set has arrived by ship, and the voyage has washed every immigrant's memory clean of all recollection of a previous life. Page by page, the larger portion of both novels is taken up by quasi-Platonic dialogues that struggle back toward a-Lethe-ia - Greek for "truth," a truth left behind on the far side of Lethe. But, by a brilliant turn, the central symposiasts are Simn, a man in his 40s, and Davd, a boy who is 5 as "Childhood" opens and 7 as "Schooldays" ends.The brilliance of this turn is that it allows Coetzee to create a kind of fusion genre blending the energy of philosophical dialogue, the warmth and unprogrammed humor of father-son repartee, the emotional potency of a family romance and finally the uncanny suggestion of allegory (womb as ship, birth as disembarkation). The result is rich, dense, often amusing and, above all, full of inner tension and suspense. Consider Davd and Simn discussing the passions in the presence of a woman named Ines. Davd begins by referring to one of his playmates:"'Maite says she wants to marry me.'"'And you? Do you want to marry Maite?'"'No, I don't ever want to get married.'"'Well, you may change your mind about that when the passions arrive.'"'Are you and Ines going to get married?' ..."'Shush!' comes Ines' angry retort. She re-enters the dormitory. 'That's enough talk. It's time for you to go to bed.'"'Do you have passions, Ines?' asks the boy."'That is none of your business,' says Ines."'Why don't you ever want to talk to me?' says the boy. 'Simn talks to me.'"Simn and Ines are neither married nor coupled. Simn concedes that Ines and he could "do sexual intercourse," as Davd puts it, without being married, but they don't. Simn (to the best of his recollection) took charge of Davd only when the boy became separated from his mother amid the confusion on board the ship that was evacuating them to the new land, where he has drafted Ines as madrina to his padrino. Whether or not she can recognize herself as Davd's lost birth mother, Simn is adamant that she must somehow assume maternal responsibility for him.Will Davd ever accept either guardian as a true adoptive parent? Their love for him grows separately, but whenever the three make a new acquaintance, the boy disconcertingly announces that Davd is not his real name (all immigrants are assigned names upon arrival) and that these two adults are not his real parents. Inevitably, Simn and Ines fall into a kind of rivalry for priority both in the boy's life and in his heart, and he waxes and wanes in his attachment to each. The couple's own relationship, meanwhile, is roughly that of joint custody after divorce, but in this case joint custody has not been preceded by either love or marriage. Might it proceed to one or the other?Simn - the pilot character in both novels, present on almost every page - seems passionless even to himself. Ines he finds stolid and humorlessly conventional. Yet in "The Childhood of Jesus," Simn has a brief, inconclusive affair with a neighbor; and when he learns that Ines is flirting with the idea of having a child by another man, he bluntly volunteers to provide her with a brother for David, as the name is (correctly) spelled in the earlier novel. She receives his offer in stony silence, but does not reject it outright.A more powerful forward movement comes from the fact that David/Davd is a gifted but difficult and explosively willful boy. In "Childhood," the authorities judge him unteachable in any normal setting and transport him to a kind of reform school. His escape from that institution leads the three central characters to go underground and flee, as "The Schooldays of Jesus" opens, to a new city. Will they be caught? What will now become of the boy?Kindly spinster sisters fund his matriculation in a dancing academy near a museum where he grows friendly with Dmitri, a security guard who is publicly and histrionically smitten by the icy beauty of Ana Magdalena, the mystagogue of the cultlike academy. "The Schooldays of Jesus" may stand as a riposte to the common charge that Coetzee's approach to fiction is cerebral and his prose dry, since Dmitri is the passionless Simn's antithesis: a supremely flamboyant vocal performer and, despite his Russian name, a classically melodramatic Latin lover. He put me in mind of lyrics from a song by Eliades Ochoa: "que boca ms linda, esa que yo vi/besarla quisiera y luego morir" (translated a bit freely as "How lovely the mouth, that mouth that I saw/I would so love to kiss it, and then die").Davd, a dancer of previously unsuspected talent, thrives under Ana Magdalena and is mesmerized by the grandiloquent and demonstrative Dmitri, but the novel draws the boy into a ghastly crime of passion involving Dmitri and Ana Magdalena, then into a dark courtroom drama and still later into a prison break. Yet in the denouement, as the boy reaches the age of reason, he is celebrated at a sweet and reassuringly normal birthday party organized by Ines. As for Simn, he has saved his son once again and perhaps won new respect and a measure of friendship from Ines. If not yet quite a family, these three now have that destination implicitly in view.All the same, "Meeting Dmitri (whom I dislike and indeed from a moral point of view despise) has been an educational experience, for me," Simn has written, confessionally, in a Spanish composition class. "I would go so far as to list it among my educational qualifications." The adopting father rather than the adopted son is perhaps the real Christ figure and the real learner in these Jesus novels in which Jesus is nowhere mentioned. "Schooldays" ends with the self-appointed savior taking the first, halting dance lesson of his life.