Welcome to Our Picks, a guide to the best stuff to read, watch and listen to from around the internet. Check this space for the must-read long-form article, the next great podcast for your commute, the news-making tweetstorm. And yes, we're also tooting our own horn here. We'll share can't-miss Times stories from the week and reveal some gems you might have overlooked.We want to hear from you! Send us feedback about our selections to ourpicks@nytimes.com. Have you ever found yourself using your smartphone's calculator for math you should be able to do in your head? Use this handy guide to mental math to break that bad habit. [Gizmodo] Most people don't pay attention to the tiny people in architectural renderings. But if you've looked closely, you might have noticed they're not a diverse bunch. One pair of architects is trying to change that. [Curbed] Researchers have projected that by 2030, South Korea will be the first country in the world with a  life expectancy  exceeding 90 years. [Nature] The man who invented the Frappuccino is known for his mystical approach to coffee. Just don't ask him to "find a higher truth" in cold brew. [Lucky Peach] We all deal with death in our own way. Some fear it. Some embrace it. And some start DIY clubs to craft their own coffins. [Narratively] Who killed Laura Palmer? Solving the crime ultimately proved fatal for "Twin Peaks" time on the air. If you're a fan of David Lynch's cult classic, be sure to read this oral history of the birth and eventual death of a show before its time. [Little White Lies via Digg] This week, A.O. Scott joins Jenna and Wesley on Still Processing to discuss how "La La Land" is going to win a lot of Oscars, and that's O.K. Before Sunday, test your Oscars knowledge with our quiz, and learn how the Oscar-nominated score of "Moonlight" came together. Over in Sweden, a local official has a novel proposal: give municipal employees an hourlong paid break each week to go home and have sex. (Meanwhile, in America, we're still trying to learn how to pronounce "hygge.") Meet Santiago Ramn y Cajal, an artist, photographer, doctor, bodybuilder - and also the father of modern neuroscience. Ever taken a subway nap? If not, this Letter of Recommendation may sell you on the idea. (Alternately, you could just curl up at home with a hot-water bottle.) The spinning rainbow circle of death. The pulsating bars of Wi-Fi connecting. If you stare at computer loading symbols all day, you'll love this short film featuring handcrafted animations of digital ephemera. And after you watch that, make sure to check out how filmmaker Raphael Vangelis put it all together in this behind-the-scenes video. [Vimeo via Recode] The nice thing about curating Our Picks every week is that we occasionally get to play fun internet games and count it as work. Like this neat little music quiz. Be sure to save it for your lunch break. And don't forget the headphones. [Esquire]Want Our Picks delivered to your inbox? Sign up for the What We're Reading newsletter, a twice-weekly email featuring great stories from around the web selected by members of The New York Times staff.