Marianne Carr Falsetta has held forth at Melody Lanes in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, for 20 years, charging customers, handing out bowling shoes and keeping everyone in line with her no-nonsense personality."I handle the money and the shoes," she said Tuesday night in her usual spot behind the counter, an elevated, illuminated stage where she plays the role of authoritative den mother."Give me a shoe, Hon," she said to each customer. "What size are you?"With that, each bowler handed up one piece of footwear as collateral for a pair of colorful narrow bowling shoes.One teenager looked down at his remaining sneaker and asked, "What do we do with the other shoe?""Under your chair," Ms. Carr Falsetta instructed, already turning to the next group with an introductory "What do you need?"Melody Lanes does not have the prices or pretentiousness of fancier Manhattan bowling spots, but it does draw a crowd. So Ms. Carr Falsetta has to process her customers like a traffic cop.If her blunt style of cutting through the nonsense comes off as attitude, consider it an initiation for newcomers, with their repetitive questions about rules and rates. Regulars know the drill, and tend to get a warm greeting. In walked a gravedigger from the nearby Green-Wood Cemetery, and soon after, Giovanni Lanzo, the cheery owner of nearby Luigi's pizza, still in his flour-dusted baker's whites."Marianne can be Marianne, but that's Marianne," Mr. Lanzo said. "She comes off rough around the edges and she can blow her top, but once you get to know her, she's a sweetheart."Ms. Carr Falsetta wore jeans, a flannel shirt and a smattering of jewelry. She had just begun her 5 p.m. shift, which runs until after midnight, Tuesday through Saturday. She often gets home at 4 a.m., but working nights enables her, in warmer weather, to spend her days at Coney Island.Tuesday night was Ladies Night, with free bowling for women, and the place was hopping. Ms. Carr Falsetta flipped on the disco lights and tweaked the song playlist. The phone kept ringing, often with customers asking if there would be lanes available later."I have to be a little tough; they're asking about 9 o'clock tonight," said Ms. Carr Falsetta, who every few minutes paged other employees over a loudspeaker:"Need bumpers on Lane 5.""Need you up front. The candy machine stole someone's candy.""Need a bartender at the bar."Ms. Carr Falsetta's counter faces the alley's barroom and its longtime regular bartender, Peter Napolitano, - who had the night off - has become known for offering up a dollop of philosophy along with his cocktails.His quirky intellectualisms have made him quite the hipster magnet, Ms. Carr Falsetta said. "We usually get along," she said. "He's there to entertain. I'm not."That last part is debatable, as evidenced when the phone rang again. The caller was asking about the dress code. "The only dress code we have is: Your pants can't be hanging off your waist," Ms. Carr Falsetta said, winking at the customers listening in.When a boy complained that he had lost his money in the candy machine, she refunded it to him and said, "Don't use it again."A teenager asked, "How do you put the names in" the electronic scoring sheet. Ms. Carr Falsetta handed him a card titled, "How to put your names in."One woman complained that even the lightest bowling balls were too heavy. Annoyed, Ms. Carr Falsetta gave her a refund.Ms. Carr Falsetta said she grew up near the bowling alley in Sunset Park, knocking around with the wizened neighborhood teenagers on the street. She had the first of her three children at 18, and worked various jobs, including wrapping meat and working in the fabric industry, she said. She is now divorced, with three grown children and five grandchildren.Ms. Carr Falsetta began bowling regularly at Melody Lanes as a teenager. She started working at the snack bar 20 years ago, but soon took over the front counter as the night manager.Even on Monday nights, her night off, she shows up for league bowling, with her son's team, the Beverly Boys.Working at the bowling alley has led to her meeting celebrities, she said, including Steve Buscemi and John Turturro, both Brooklyn locals, and both known for their roles in the bowling-themed 1998 cult classic "The Big Lebowski."Ms. Carr Falsetta said she had broken up fights between raucous late-night patrons. "I never lost a fight," she boasted, holding up a gnarled pinkie, broken in a street scuffle long ago.She was back on the loudspeaker, this time admonishing parents for letting their children wander down the lanes."Folks, please don't let your kids go past the line," she announced, shaking her head. "How do some people not understand this?"