Caitlyn Jenner, perhaps the most influential transgender activist in the country, joined a growing chorus of critics who have denounced President Trump's decision to rescind protections that allowed transgender students to use the bathroom of their choice.Ms. Jenner, an Olympic gold medalist and reality television star, delivered a blunt warning to Mr. Trump in a video posted on Twitter on Thursday. "This is a disaster," she said, adding, "See you in court."That statement echoed the president's declaration on Twitter after his travel ban on immigrants from certain nations was blocked by the courts.Ms. Jenner's rebuke raised the level of opposition, and not only because of her high profile. She is a lifelong Republican and an early supporter of Mr. Trump's when he was still thought to be a long shot to win the party's nomination.She said in June that she thought Mr. Trump would support gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender issues: "He seems very much behind the L.G.B.T. community." Ms. Jenner, 67, also attended some of the festivities surrounding his presidential inauguration in January.Ms. Jenner credited Mr. Trump last summer for breaking with other Republicans in not supporting a law in North Carolina that barred people from using public bathrooms that did not correspond with their biological sex.Asked about the law a year ago, Mr. Trump said people should be able to "use the bathroom they feel appropriate."Ms. Jenner now says she feels betrayed: "From one Republican to another, this is a disaster, and you can still fix it," she said, offering words of encouragement to transgender students. "You made a promise to protect the L.G.B.T.Q. community," she reminded Mr. Trump, adding, "Call me."A White House spokeswoman could not immediately be reached for comment on Friday.Gay rights supporters have swiftly condemned the president over the Justice Department and Education Department's rejection of the Obama administration's position that nondiscrimination laws allow transgender students to use bathrooms corresponding with their gender identities.Activists said the rollback opened the door to bullying, harassment and discrimination of children.Janet Mock, another prominent transgender activist, wrote in an Op-Ed article for The New York Times that the White House did not understand the negative impact of the decision."It's adults like those in the Trump administration who don't realize the consequences of pitting young people against one another, which encourages some to be bullies and turns others into sinister objects," Ms. Mock wrote.Another critic, the singer Jackie Evancho, who performed at Mr. Trump's inauguration and has a transgender sister, said she was "obviously disappointed" by his decision. She has asked to meet with the president, and the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, said on Thursday that Mr. Trump would welcome it.