SIX FOURBy Hideo YokoyamaTranslated by Jonathan Lloyd-Davies.566 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $28."Was it possible that, in that silence, all worlds were connected?" This strange question, which turns out to be the key sentence in Hideo Yokoyama's superb "Six Four," sounds like something from a science-fiction novel, a lonely astronaut's meditation in deep space. But "Six Four" is a crime novel, set right here in our world - a world that this story's hero, a middle-aged prefectural policeman named Yoshinobu Mikami, comes to find nearly unrecognizable, a world gone mute. It's an odd feeling for someone like Mikami, who's used to getting answers. He has spent most of his career as a detective, until a recent, unwelcome transfer to Media Relations; he's clearly a man who's happier digging for the truth than doling it out in bite-size pieces to the fractious press. The events of "Six Four" conspire to make him (unofficially) an investigator again. Mysteries swirl around him - and through him, because Superintendent Mikami, at this unsettled moment in his life, is also a mystery to himself.For more than 500 pages, he broods and muses as the ground keeps shifting under his feet, and although he's not by nature an introspective man, he's an unusually conscientious one: If the situation requires him to brood and muse, he will brood and muse, doggedly, dutifully. As the story begins, Mikami's teenage daughter, Ayumi, has been missing for months, an apparent runaway. In the novel's first scene, he and his wife, Minako, are at the morgue to view a body that fits their daughter's description. (It's not her.) When he gets to work, in the media relations job he doesn't really want, the reporters are in revolt because, on the orders of his superiors, he won't reveal the name of a driver who critically injured an elderly pedestrian, and over the next several days their protest will become a terrific headache for him. He's in charge of setting up a visit by the commissioner general from Tokyo, and the ticked-off press corps is threatening not to cover it. His wife is remote and preoccupied, sitting at home by the phone, waiting for a call from their daughter and forgetting to eat; they've had silent phone calls, which Minako - more than Mikami - believes are from Ayumi. Mikami is having dizzy spells. And then things get worse.It's the run-up to the commissioner's visit that nearly pushes Mikami past his breaking point. The ostensible purpose of the great man's appearance in their midst is to publicize a renewed effort to solve the 14-year-old kidnapping and murder of a local child: a case the detectives refer to as "Six Four" because the crime took place just before the death of Emperor Hirohito put an end to the Showa period, which had lasted into its 64th year. Yet Mikami begins to suspect that there's another, less noble, agenda - maybe a power play, maybe even a cover-up. As he claws his way through the bureaucratic thicket created by internecine battles of which he's only dimly aware, he starts to feel a little like the reporters he has been trying, and failing, to handle: He doesn't like being in the dark any more than they do.Because this is a detective novel, the hero does, of course, detect, but until the final pages there's not much of the customary game's-afoot, thrill-of-the-chase sort of suspense in "Six Four." Mikami rarely seems to be getting anywhere, to be making much progress toward breaching the many silences that surround him. The world isn't speaking to him, and now, in midlife and midcareer, he's asking himself if it ever did. And although the novel is written in the third person and has an enormous cast of characters, the only perspective Yokoyama gives us is Mikami's. There's no breathless crosscutting in this narrative, no relief from the protagonist's constant, anguished self-interrogation.The police-procedural subgenre of crime fiction has, Lord knows, supplied plenty of tormented investigators for its readers' morbid pleasure, but this detective's emotional issues aren't of a kind we're at all accustomed to. He isn't, for example, beset by unwanted images of horrible crimes or racked with guilt about lives he failed to save. He frets about homelier things: about his responsibilities to his family and his job, about the day-to-day irritants of office politics, about the nature and strength of his various loyalties.Mikami feels pulled in all directions, both at home and, especially, at work. "He still couldn't claim to have fully merged into his title of press director," Yokoyama writes. "It was proving hard to maintain his cool. He decided to use the stairs and not the elevator, climbing to the fifth floor on foot, but rather than feeling more composed he found himself increasingly conflicted." He's dismayed to discover in himself "the obligation he still felt to Criminal Investigations, tangled like original sin around his heart." To Mikami's flatfoot heart, such doubts and uncertainties seem momentous, and amazingly, "Six Four" makes them seem momentous to us too.That's a feat. Mystery fans are used to stories with dark psychological undertones, and because this novel is set in Japan and involves a kidnapping, you might expect something like Akira Kurosawa's great 1963 film "High and Low," which is positively Dostoyevskian. (Despite having been adapted from one of Ed McBain's efficient 87th Precinct novels, which don't call to mind "Crime and Punishment.") What Yokoyama does in "Six Four" evokes - improbably - the fastidious ethical parsings of a novel by Henry James, all qualms and calibrations, and while that might not sound like a good idea, he makes it work. He writes, fortunately, in plain, declarative prose (ably translated by Jonathan Lloyd-Davies), and because Mikami is such an ordinary man the mental gymnastics he puts himself through are moving and sometimes deeply funny. A Jamesian police procedural - "The Wings of the Perp," maybe? Not exactly. But this novel is a real, out-of-the-blue original. I've never read anything like it.Yokoyama has written five previous novels and several collections of short fiction, and this is his first book to be translated into English. (One short story appeared in Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine almost a decade ago.) On the evidence of "Six Four," he's a master. He asks his readers to remain patient through long scenes of office infighting and to follow the halting progress of his Everycop hero's thoughts, which are often about bureaucratic tactics and the finer points of professional ethics - not the usual stuff of thrillers. And at least for Western readers, just keeping all the names straight can be a challenge, especially since an awful lot of them begin with the letter M. But even that, unexpectedly, turns out to be a clue.Yokoyama plays fair, rewarding our patience with an exceptionally clever and satisfying resolution of the case, and offering at least some provisional answers to the existential mysteries that have been nagging at his frazzled hero. This Pandora's box closes at last, firmly and with an audible click. The rest is silence.