This article contains spoilers about the Sunday, Feb. 26, episode of "Girls,"  which is streaming early on HBO Go and HBO Now.How appropriate that near the end of HBO's "Girls," the most obsessively blogged show of all time, Hannah Horvath herself becomes a blogger. In the third episode of this, the sixth and final season, Hannah (the show's creator and star Lena Dunham) has written a piece for a "niche feminist blog" about Chuck Palmer, the author of such faux Great American Novel titles as "Shannon's Rock." After Hannah endorses several online accusations about the author - in which young female fans detailed run-ins with Palmer that turned into sexual encounters of questionable consent - Chuck, played by Matthew Rhys ("The Americans"), invites Hannah up to his ostentatious apartment to confront her. Over the course of a heady 30-minute episode, they spar, laugh and connect over Philip Roth. Then he takes out his penis.Mr. Rhys and Ms. Dunham spoke in separate telephone interviews about the making of this provocative episode, Chuck's real-life inspirations and that scene. These are edited excerpts from their interviews.How did Matthew come to play Chuck Palmer? LENA DUNHAM That was [executive producers] Jenni Konner and Judd Apatow. They are crazed "Americans" fans. I didn't know who should play this role, and Jenni said, "Matthew Rhys is so interesting- he can play so many characters in one episode." She felt that he had the charm to make it interesting. A lot of actors have ego, and don't want to play sleazy characters.MATTHEW RHYS Being an actor with a healthy ego, I thought, "Why did they think I was perfect for this insidious, predatory older person?" No, I'm joking. I loved the script straight away, because I appreciated that she was trying to write an even-handed debate between two people, where it's not black and white and the interest of it lies in its gray borders.Tell me about the inspiration for this episode. DUNHAM I know that because of the nature of the show, people will try to decode the characters, but it really is an amalgamation of every experience I've known young creative women to have as they've fought their way through this industry. It was the apex of a dialogue I'm in with so many of my friends who've had this experience - complex, intellectual, yet predatory relationships with men that they creatively admire. I wrote the first draft of the episode in one night, just taking out my frustration and curiosity at these older, male, energy-sucking figures and trying to turn it into a cohesive half-hour.Did you two find yourselves discussing the debate at the center of the episode?RHYS Yeah, we did - where did it come from, where is it born, what is it born of? That was of great interest to us, because the character can't be one-dimensional or else you don't care. I was interested in how someone becomes that. We spoke at length about the chronic insecurity that comes from the realization of a position of power, and what that can lead to - how someone goes from being a marginally famous author, and then assumes a position of power of a predatory, sexual nature. The evolution of it psychologically - I just realized how pretentious that statement was - was what was interesting.DUNHAM The thing that was so cool about Matthew was that he didn't come in with a preconceived moral notion about the episode. He came in and sat down with me and said, "Tell me about your experience as a woman in this industry, and tell me the psychological profile that you've experienced of the kind of guy who would do this."Lena, one of the most interesting things about the episode is that you can sense your investment in both characters. You're someone who's been outspoken about lifting women's voices, but you've also been put through the ringer online by strangers. DUNHAM Shaming isn't something that I've had the experience to discuss through the lens of Hannah, because that's not her experience. It's a crazy world where you can relate completely to a victimized 27-year-old girl and a misunderstood 45-year-old man. There's a side of myself that I can only tap into through his rage. As women, we're taught to feel lucky for what we get, and to not complain. Through that character I could say, "You know what? This hasn't been totally fair, and it's hurt, and it's affected my life." I'm a person, and I deserve to be seen as an artist, and not as a chew-toy for the alt-right or a punch line for liberals. That's not something I feel comfortable saying as Lena Dunham, but Chuck Palmer would say it.Chuck's apartment perfectly expressed that self-love. He's drinking from an "I  Chuck" mug. And was that a painting of Woody Allen hanging over the whole episode?DUNHAM It's Woody Allen holding a gun to his head. What more do you have to say than that? It's something that a lot of people in Hollywood have trouble wrapping their heads around, that duality - that you can love someone's work and be horrified by their set of values. I don't know why we always have to pardon great men.Matthew, in "The Americans," you also play a sexual manipulator - though one with a conscience - who inhabits a number of identities. Did you see this role as presenting a similar challenge, of playing more than one character at once? RHYS In a way, yes. One of the things that "Girls" does incredibly well is to reassure the world that it's O.K. to be fallible, and that's what these two people are. In addition to their cavernous cracks, they have other virtues that even them out. The hope was that you see that movement in the half an hour -he's this, he's that, he's this, and then you go, "Oh, God -he's that. Oh, God."What was that scene like?RHYS Embarrassing. Even more so that it was so predatory in its nature. There was something deeply uncomfortable about doing it.DUNHAM When we filmed that take, I jumped up and was like, "I hate you!" He and I had become such good buddies over the weekend, and I was like, "I can't believe you just made that face!" It freaked me out more than I could have imagined. That was completely Matthew's creation - this guy who makes a "gotcha" face. You can see that his pleasure isn't sexual. It's a psychological cat-and-mouse game that he likes to play.Have we seen a penis on Girls before?DUNHAM Well, that's not a real penis. I just want to make sure that everyone knows that's a silicone penis. We've seen glimpses of penises in the show before, but this one was pretty overt. When we wrote it in, I remember Matthew said, "I just want to get an understanding of how we're going to shoot this," and we were like, "We're not going to make you take out your nude penis. Don't worry."RHYS They asked me, 'Do you want to pick your own prosthetic penis?' I said, 'No. I'll leave that up to you.'