NEW CANAAN, Conn. - Like many residences in this woodsy land of Modernist architecture, the house Alan Goldberg designed in 1977 for his wife, Gertrude Schaffner Goldberg, and their children was conceived as a serene, minimalist paradise.That was before they started negotiating rocky trails to remote Mexican villages in pursuit of ceramic mermaids, funeral processions made of corn husks, and other folk art. Their exuberant collection by 86 known artists quickly subsumed their once-pristine house.The family moved here so Mr. Goldberg, an architect, now 85, could work with the pioneering industrial designer and architect Eliot Noyes. Mrs. Goldberg, 81, known as Trudy, is an author and professor emerita of social policy at Adelphi University.They began traveling to Mexico in the early 1960s when Zihuatanejo, in Guerrero state, was a sleepy fishing village "filled with characters out of a Humphrey Bogart movie," Mr. Goldberg said. Their passion for the art, which includes 118 pieces by the  clay artist Josefina Aguilar, from Oaxaca, was inspired partly by the collector and architect Alexander Girard.Fragile clay, papier-mche and other materials - some tableaus are made up of hundreds of tiny pieces - led to close relationships with shipping companies.Their collection will soon depart for San Francisco, a donation to the Mexican Museum, a Smithsonian affiliate scheduled to open in 2019. Below are edited excerpts from a conversation with the couple.If you two were exiled to a desert island, which work would you bring? ALAN A polychromatic clay figure by Josefina Aguilar of a mother holding the hand of one child and carrying the other. It has a lovely simplicity.TRUDY A piece by Luis Valencia Mendoza  of Eve in the Garden of Eden as a single mother, without Adam. It has lovely tropical birds, and Eve seems able to go it alone. I like to muse about what the male artist was thinking.What is the most unromantic aspect of collecting Mexican folk art? ALAN These works are very fragile, and when you're unpacking, you can sense if something is broken. It's very stressful. These are one-of-a-kind pieces. Fortunately we have a fantastic restorer.I love the huge cactus with skeleton musicians hanging off the pads. ALAN It's "El Festn del Nopal," a piece we commissioned from papier-mche artist Ricardo Linares Garcia in Mexico City. When it was ready, Ricardo told us to meet him in the park. We took a taxi. I looked at the piece, I looked at the taxi and said, 'It's not going to fit."TRUDY Alan wound up designing a special box, which then got stuck in Customs. It took more than a year to get here.What's the most memorable thing an artist has said to you?ALAN Josefina Aguilar is now blind. I asked her, "How can you continue to work?" She said: "It's not the eyes. It's the hand and the brain."Is this really it? Are you finished collecting? ALAN I'm already feeling anxiety pains. But in my head it's over.TRUDY We'll have to be able to carry it on the plane.What's been your most taxing travel experience? ALAN I was walking on a broken sidewalk in Zihuatanejo carrying folk art in both hands, then tripped and fell. I dislocated my arm as I was trying to protect the folk art. A passer-by lifted me into her car and as she was about to drive me to the hospital, I called back to Trudy, "Get the folk art!"What's that incredible piece on your dresser? TRUDY It's a procession of women mourners with a female in the coffin. It's by Josefina and very touching. Not everybody has a wake in their bedroom.