Jamie McLaughlin isn't the superintendent of his building on the Far West Side of Manhattan, but sometimes it may seem that way. On snowy days, he shovels the steps and clears the sidewalk. One week out of every month he sorts the recyclables and hauls the trash out to the curb.Actually the cleaning and the clearing are fine by him - a minor inconvenience for the pleasure of living in a small (five-unit) self-managed co-op building. "We love our apartment, and we love being part of the community," said Mr. McLaughlin, 35, the president and co-founder of an executive search firm."I think my wife would like a doorman, and she doesn't like putting out the trash," he added. "I just make sure I'm never out of town when it's our turn to do it."Small co-ops have a definite appeal. Maintenance charges are generally lower than in larger buildings. And in a city like New York, where buildings with 50 apartments or more are common, a small co-op "can feel not so cold, not so impersonal, more a cup-of-sugar-from-your-neighbor kind of thing," said Kathy Braddock, a managing director at William Raveis New York City. But what draws some to such buildings makes them a turnoff to others. After all, not everyone wants to shed the urban cloak of anonymity. And not everyone wants the chores and the responsibilities (arranging for boiler repairs, taking charge of refinancing the mortgage, serving on the board) that are often part of the package.Think of it as a classic good news/bad news scenario.The good news: Because there are only a few shareholders, decisions can be made more quickly. "There are six units in our building," said Gina Fini, 52, a hairstylist who lives in a small co-op on the Upper West Side. "When we need to discuss something, we open a bottle of wine and have a meeting."The bad news: Because there are only a few shareholders, "any discord will be magnified and factions will have more influence," said Steven Sladkus, a real estate lawyer. "Four people banding together may not get far in an 80-unit building, but they'll get very far in an eight-unit building."The good news: With just a few residents, a small co-op building is almost like a private house, and your neighbors become like family.The bad news: With just a few residents, a small co-op building is almost like a private house, and your neighbors become like family.When Saskia Coleman and her husband, Brendan, decided to take that big step - to go from renters to owners - they considered all options. They looked at large full-service buildings, "where the apartments were very cookie cutter," said Ms. Coleman, 36, the chief executive and president of Radius, a personal care company. "But that's not our style. We wanted a unique space."Two and a half years ago, the couple found that unique space - a loft duplex with a balcony in a self-managed, seven-unit co-op in the Flatiron district."There are a lot of benefits - it's quiet and it's private," Ms. Coleman said. "The negatives are that it's like living with family. When things happen, you can't separate yourself and say, 'Let the management company handle it.' "A management company would have been useful to mediate an ongoing battle in their building. Because it is a landmark, the front windows must conform to a particular style. "One shareholder is complaining that her windows don't open to her satisfaction, and she wants the rest of us to pay to replace them," Ms. Coleman said. "We've all told her the windows are fine, and she now sees us as the heavies."Of course, doing without a management company saves money, one reason small co-ops tend to have lower maintenance fees. They are also light on services and amenities like doormen, gyms and elevators - yet another way to keep a lid on shareholders' monthly fiscal obligation."The cost of operating our building is $4 a square foot," said Charles Morisi, 60, who works in real estate development and owns a duplex in a small co-op in Park Slope, Brooklyn. "It could be four or five times that in a full-service building."There have been other issues where Ms. Coleman lives. "It's very easy for power to be taken in a small co-op," she said. "The people who've been here the longest do most of the decision-making. It's great because they know how to get things done. But there is cronyism. We want to know why they're using a particular plumber who charges a lot, and the longtime shareholders get annoyed when we question their decisions."And every problem is everybody's problem. "You start weighing the value of making a noise when you have a concern," said Ms. Coleman, citing the example of a vestibule door that failed to close properly. "You turn a blind eye to certain things to avoid the barrage of discussion that will follow."Ms. Coleman is pregnant with her second child. The family needs more space. While that's the primary reason for their planned move this spring to a larger apartment in a full-service building, it doesn't hurt one bit that there will be a management company to deal with thorny matters. There will also be many more residents "to spread around the hostility," Ms. Coleman said with a laugh.When you only have half a dozen neighbors, it would be nice to limit personality clashes. But prospective residents need to broaden their definition of congeniality beyond, "How perfect, we all have toddlers.""You have to consider how you fit with the building's dynamic and whether the shareholders share your beliefs about how to handle problems," said Ms. Braddock of William Raveis."Is this a building that waits until the last minute to repair something, and is that O.K. with you? Or is it forward thinking and eager to address an issue immediately?" she added. "It could be pleasant or a living nightmare if you're out of sync with how the building does things."A writer, now 45, was counting on pleasant when she moved into a bright, newly renovated 12-unit brownstone in Chelsea 20 years ago. What she got was a living nightmare."I've always liked small buildings, but it was horrible from day one," said the woman who requested anonymity to avoid exacerbating already difficult relationships with some neighbors. "I think the people who were attracted to the building wanted something personal and intimate, and a lot of them were self-employed or unemployed," she continued. "It was 12 artistic temperaments. People didn't think they had to follow the rules."There were wars about the washer and dryer. "One day I took somebody's wet stuff out of the washer, and she didn't like it, so she took my stuff out of the washer as it was filling up with water. In a bigger building there wouldn't be just one washer and dryer."The roof deck was another battleground. "Shareholders would just take it over if they wanted to have people over, and if you came up, you'd be told, 'I'm having a party here,' " the woman said.There were complaints about a neighbor's stereo speakers, and at one point, the shareholders who were upset about the noise hired a lawyer. "But the noisemakers were on the board, and they refused to have a board meeting if we had counsel there," said the woman. "If I ever get another place it will be a condo in a big building." Steven R. Wagner, a real estate lawyer, counsels prospective buyers in small co-ops to pay attention to the condition of the building and the size of the reserve fund. "I would look to see if the building had been investing in making regular capital repairs," he said."You should also try to get a sense of whether there's been litigation or objectionable conduct or a lot of infighting," Mr. Wagner said. "Sometimes that stuff shows up in the minutes of board meetings."Of course, there are some true believers, among them, Ms. Fini. "You take a chance with your neighbors in a small building, but that's true anywhere you buy," she said. "Everybody gets along here. The building has become family. But people who like amenities - you don't have that here."Technological advances have made amenities less of a sticking point. "We're in a time when small buildings can have some of the conveniences they want without having to pay a lot for them," said Shari Matluck, a sales agent at Douglas Elliman. "They can set up a virtual doorman. They can get dry cleaning on demand. It's easy for shareholders to come together because they can have group texts to decide whether they should allow pieds--terre and to figure out whose turn it is to clear the stoop."A few months ago, Genevieve Toh moved with her husband, Chris Teo, and their two sons into a self-managed, eight-unit co-op in South Slope, Brooklyn. Ms. Toh, 37, a voice teacher and singer/songwriter, had lived previously in a 200-unit building in Singapore, then a 40-unit building in New York, and sought out a smaller building because, as she put it, "There were more opportunities for being part of a community."So far she has no reason to regret the decision. "Everything is run like a business in a big building. There are so many rules and regulations," Ms. Toh said. "But here I see students all day and make a lot of music. If my neighbors object, we talk about it one-on-one and we make a connection."What many see as a downside to living in a small co-op - shoveling snow and hauling trash - Ms. Toh sees as an upside. "You clear the steps with your neighbors, and you bond with them," she said."Someone had a parcel stolen, and it rallied us to watch out for each other," Ms. Toh continued. "Now, if I see a package downstairs, I'll pick it up and bring it to a neighbor's door."Since moving in, she's been invited to a housewarming party, a birthday party and lunch with a woman who also has young children. "Conversations turn into meet-up and meet-ups turn into friendships," Ms. Toh said. "I'm not saying every small building will have this sense of community, but I'm glad I'm living in one."