Three of the five nominees for best costume design at this year's Oscars - "Allied," "Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them" and "Florence Foster Jenkins" - got their costumes from one place: Angels Costume, a family-run shop on the outskirts of London.Ahead of the Oscars, we went behind the scenes at the costumer's headquarters. Founded in 1840 in Covent Garden, Angels does a brisk business with costume designers for movies, TV and theater productions, as well as stylists and magazine editors. (Among its recent clients are "The Crown," "Victoria" and "Assassin's Creed.") Most often, what they need can be drawn from Angels' vast inventory. Other times, Angels staff create costumes from scratch. If you lined up all of the costumes in Angels' storage in a row, it would stretch about eight miles."The Crown" and "The BFG" are just two of the productions to which Angels supplied household cavalry helmets.The helmets are shown on display on a wall in the warehouse dedicated to movies that the house has helped costume whose designs have been honored by the Academy. In all, Angels has worked on 36 movies that have won the Oscar for costume design. The first was Laurence Olivier's "Hamlet," in 1948. The most recent is "The Grand Budapest Hotel," in 2015.Here's a look at Angels staffers at work.This dress is a replica of the Queen's real coronation dress.Angels originally made it for a window display at the luxury department store Harrods, not to actually be worn. But when creative executives on "The Crown" came to the shop looking to dress the queen for her coronation scene, the Angels staff realized a dress already in stock would do the trick.Angels achieved certain details on the dress with a kind of design shorthand. The green plants shown below, for example, were stitched onto the real-life dress. Staff at Angels screen-printed them onto their re-creation.Angels staff also glued on the beads, rather than stitching them, and based their rendering on black-and-white photographs, drawings and a swatch of fabric given to them by the dress's original makers.The trappings of royalty are a big part of the shop's business. One of its more recognizable dresses was worn by Judi Dench as Queen Elizabeth in "Shakespeare in Love," which won the costume designer Sandy Powell an Oscar.And on the new Masterpiece series "Victoria," Jenna Coleman, who plays Queen Victoria, wore this dress.The dress was pulled from the Angels stock for the TV show. As high-definition TV has entered the mainstream, it's become more important for costume shops like Angels to use high-quality fabrics because audiences can spot the difference.The real-life Princess Margaret hired Angels to build costumes for "Old Mother Red Riding Boots," a show that she staged with her sister, Queen Elizabeth II, in 1944.Angels sent this red jacket, likely originally made as a hunting jacket for an upper-class British man in the 19th century, to the set of "Downton Abbey."Angels keeps it in stock and re-tailors it to fit the actor.This is the "Badge Room," where Angels keeps hundreds and hundreds of military and other uniform badges.The costume shop can also add details, like different buttons, to outfits based on a specific production's needs. Below are vintage buttons from the real-life Egyptian navy.These Egyptian navy buttons are some of the favorite go-to's for movies about fictional militaries, Jeremy Angel, a sixth-generation member of the Angel family, said."If you come up with a fictitious army that you've created for Outer Ongolia, or whatever you want to call your random country, we will go and use certain buttons that we know we can create a legitimate looking set."Egypt's are particularly good because they have "really good symbology," Mr. Angel said. He noted that the anchor and the eagle made for convincing (and adaptable) military icons.They've been used in theater productions, commercials and in the movie, "Evita," in which they adorned the costumes of Argentine military officers.And then there are the furs, which are kept in a refrigerated room so they remain crisp.