Volkswagen has spelled "fun" with the letters GTI since 1983 in the United States. Based on the utilitarian Rabbit (the name America got instead of Golf back in the day), the original hot hatchback was a revelation. Until then, Americans believed performance cars needed rear-wheel drive and thirsty V8 engines. Pulled by the front wheels, the 90-horsepower 4-cylinder GTI ran with Pontiac Trans Ams clad with "Screaming Chicken" decals.Still, I understand why Burt Reynolds didn't do "Smokey and the Bandit" in a hatchback.I've been fortunate to drive many expensive high-performance cars, and yet one particular romp in a sixth generation GTI remains near the top of my fun chart. The new Golf, riding on Volkswagen's MQB architecture, is even better.But first the lows. The SE model tested is one rung down from the top-tier Autobahn edition and lacks automatic climate control. The sunroof is large-ish but far smaller than a Kia Soul's. Finally, some won't forgive Volkswagen for the sins of the diesel. Fair enough.The rest, save for getting stuck in a muddy cornfield, is positive.You can buy a base S model for $26,415. (That's less than a Ferrari bumper.) My SE tester lists for $30,715. I'd add the $595 Driver Assistance package with adaptive cruise control and autonomous emergency braking. It's a tough choice between the excellent 6-speed manual (bested only by the Mazda MX-5 Miata) and the quick shifting $1,100 6-speed dual-clutch automatic transmission. I'd go with the automatic. Wait, make it the manual. Hmmm, get back to me.The manual transmission is E.P.A.-rated at 24 city and 34 highway. Highway mileage drops two m.p.g. with the dual-clutch automatic.Drinking premium fuel, the 2-liter turbocharged 4-cylinder delivers 220 horsepower, dropping to 210 horsepower with standard-grade gas. (The base S does not get that extra kick.) The 258 pound-feet of torque surges early in the rev range for quick starts. Steering weight, throttle and exhaust note can be adjusted. The Autobahn version gets an adjustable adaptive suspension.A buying tip: Skip the S for the Sport. The $2,400 jump provides bigger brake discs and an adjustable differential that can send full power to either front wheel and quell torque steer (steering wheel tugging during hard starts).The drive I so fondly remember happened on an impossibly empty and dry Northern California road with more twists than a M. Night Shyamalan script. This time, the pavement never improved past damp, and the new GTI had tires optimized for dry pavement. This is what writers call "foreshadowing."In ideal conditions, Car and Driver recorded a 0-to-60 sprint of 6.1 seconds and a respectable .93 lateral G rating on the skid pad (a measure of cornering grip). But forget numbers. GTI has that rarest of commodities in an affordable car - soul.In hard cornering, all sorts of electronic things happen. The inside rear brakes feather to deliver a more confident arc. More power may even be routed to one of the front wheels. But chances are, drivers will be completely unaware. The GTI forms a Vulcan mind meld between human and machine, high Zen during high jinks.The GTI's palpable refined quality feels a full grade more expensive than it is. The road and engine sound is appropriate for a performance car, but not intrusive. The ride quality is comfortable with little unwanted body movement or harshness.The GTI is like that friend in college who pushed you to party. Tempted once too often, I entered a water- and gravel-covered corner a skosh too fast, ending up with the passenger side axle-deep in farm mud.Perhaps it was penance for ripping up that California road years back.Two "Our Ferraris" and three "Hail Mercedes" (and a $260 towing bill) later, the GTI was ready for more. No damage done, just a bruised ego, a dinged wallet and a reminder to always drive within conditions.There was plenty of time to evaluate the interior while waiting for the tow. Materials are top notch. Cars twice the price don't get a flat-bottomed steering wheel, crisp red ambient lighting and soft lining in the door pockets to dampen rattles. The SE's exceptional Fender sound system is worth the extra charge. The SE also swaps out GTI's trademark Clark Plaid cloth for black leather. The heated seats hug like a mother after her child's week away at summer camp.Volkswagen's snappy touch-screen user interface is above average and offers Apple CarPlay.Two average-size adults will be genuinely comfortable in the back seat, bisected by the drive shaft tunnel used in the high-performance R model (sure wish I had had all-wheel drive on that wet corner). The 60/40 split back seats are equipped with a ski pass-through. Drop the seats and the cavernous cargo hold can fit a bicycle. Or a winch.The VW's closest hot hatch competition is the Ford Focus ST. At just under $31,000 as tested, the GTI is tough to beat, with its triple threat of performance, refinement and utility. It does everything well. Except off-roading.